=head1 NAME

Tk::GridEntry - Composite widget for a set of widgets in a grid form

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk::GridEntry;
    $datahash={};
    $whash=>{ 'columns'=>["col1","col2"],
	      'col1'=>{'widgettype'=>'Entry',
			'label'=>'Col1',
			'col'=>'0',
			-width=>'10'
		      }
		......
		}
    $ge = $top->GridEntry(-structure=>$whash,
			  -datahash=>$datahash,
			  -rows=>10
			)->pack();


=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over 4
B<Tk::GridEntry> defines a set of widgets associated with an hash of arrays.

Creation of GridEntry is a three step process.

Step 1:
First define the set of widget in hash-of-hash. The hash-of-hash 
should have element with key "columns", which refers to an array 
which holds the widget names, in the order of creation. Each entry 
in this array becomes a column in the grid.

'columns'=>["col1","col2"]

Next attributes of individual columns should be specified as 
hash. e.g

'col1'=>{'widgettype'=>'Entry',       #widget
         'label'     =>'Col1',        #Column Title
         'col'       =>0,              #Column position
         'bindings'  =>"FocusOut subname",#Event
         -width=>10,
         -foreground=>'Red'

	}

The hash in fact contains two sets of data. The elements like 
'widgettype', 'label', 'col' and 'bindings' are attributes of 
the whole column. 

The elements with '-' at the beginning like '-width' '-font' 
are passed to the individual widget. Thus in the above example 
you get column with title 'Col1', full of Entry widgets, with 
FocusOut bind to focusoutsub subroutine. The width of widget 
will be 10.

Step 2
Once the structure is defined, the GridEntry widget can be created. 

$ge=$top->GridEntry(
       -structure=>$whash    #The widget structure 
                              as in step1
       -datahash=>$datahash  #Reference to hash of arrays 
                              tobe displayed
       -rows=>'10'           #No.of rows in the grid
       -scroll=>'1'          #Scroll buttons yes/no
       )->pack();

Step 3

The data should be populated. The data is arranged as hash of array.
Each hash keys are column names, and element of hash-of array are the
data.

Two situtations are possible 
1. You want to display existing data and allow editing.
   The data must be arranged in a hash of arrays e.g

for (my $i=0;$i<10;$i++){
      $datahash->{'col1'}[$i]=$i;
      $datahash->{'col2'}[$i]=sprintf "col2.%d",$i;
      }
        
After populating datahash with whatever data required, call

	$ge->moverectoscreen();

	$ge->update();

This will set textvariable in each widget to corresponding array
element in data.  Any editing on the gridentry will be done on 
data hash also as textvariable is set.

By default rows are equal to the no.of elements in array. If you need 
additonal blank rows, use extend property. specifying '-extend=>10' 
will allow ten elements to be added to arrays in datahash.

2.Want to display blank grid.

First set '-extend' to whatever number of rows you want.
Like '-extend=>100'.  
Just set datahash={} (prior to widget definition) and 
moverecscreen. 

The hash-of-array grows as data is keyed in.

Navigation:

The user may browse with the Page up/down keys. 
Arrow keys can be used move between currently display rows.
If scroll option is set, scroll buttons can be used to scroll 
page up/down.
If browsecmd is set, whenever, pages are scrolled the callback 
is executed.


=head1 OPTIONS

Each individual widgets can be of any standard/new widget 
as long as -textvariable option is available.

=over 4
B<Must have>

=item B<-structure> 

The reference hash which holds individual widget 
details. See section Specifying Structure for more details.


=item B<-datahash>  

The reference hash which holds the hash-of-array 
containing data. See section Specifying Data.



=item B<Optionals>


=item B<-extend> 

Number of blank rows that can be appended, after the
end of existing data rows. For example with datahash has 10 rows, 
and extend is 2, then the gridentry will scroll upto two rows only.


Any addition/deletion to data, other than thro GridEntry edition 
will not be counted in extend.


=item B<-scroll> 

Setting this to 1 will display buttons for scrolling
the data. Page up/down navigation is always available.


=item B<-browsecmd> 

This refers to a callback that will be called
whenever contents are scrolled either with page up/down key or using
scroll buttons.

=item B<-sumrow> 

This creates a row at the bottom which can be used
to display summary values. The widgets in this rows are constantly
associated to a textvariable referred by  $widgethash->{key}{value}.
See sec. individual widget properties elsewhere in this document.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<moverectoscreen> 

This method associates data rows to screen
display using textvariable property. This method should be called
whenever - data populated for the first time
         - manually alter page index and want to redisplay
         

=item B<extend>  

This method can be used to alter the extend value.
Extend denotes number of blank rows that be appended to existing data
by scrolling the widget. 

If called without any arugument returns the current setting of extend.

If called with 'reset' resets counter keeping track of number of
additions, to zero.

Any other numeric value sets the extend to that value.

=item B<pageindex>

Without argument, returns the page number currently
in display. Page numbers start with 0. Every n elements (n=rows
specified) constitute a page.

If given a number the current page index is altered to point to the
newpage. If value > no.of rows in data, index set to last page.

Note: The screen data will not be updated to new page.Call
moverectoscreen to update the display.

=item B<movenulltoscreen> 

This method can be used to clear contents of
screen. All the cells will be associated with a dummy variable to take off
bindings with data-rows.

=item B<sum>

This method returns the column total value. The column
name should be passed. 

=item B<curRow> 

Returns the current row index i.e which has focus.
Note row id 0 is for the labels. Thus first row is 1 and not zero.


=item B<curCol> 

Returns the current column index i.e which has focus.

=head1 Specifying Structure

=over 4

=item  A hash-of-hash is specify widget in the cells. Like this

$widgethash={
              columns=>["col1","col2"],
              'col1'=>{
              'widgettype'=>'Entry',
              'col'=>0,
              'label'=>'Column 1',
              'bindings'=>'FocusOut callfocusout',
              -width=>'10',
              -font=>'Arial 12'
               },

            'col2'=>{
                    ......
                    }
                };

B<'columns':>

The key 'columns' is reference to an array with columns to be
created as elements. The order in which widget will be packed is the
same order as in this array. Each element in this array should have
hash defined following the array.

Every widget(cell) in the gridentry will have the widget name as

$structure->{$key}{'widget'}{row} format. Thus in the above example,
first row first column will be $widgethash->{'col1'}{'widget'}{1}.

$structure->{$key}{'widget'}{0} will always be column title and of
widget type label.

B<'widgettype'>  : This specifies the type of widget to be created. This
can be any widget which has option -textvariable.

B<'col'>   : Specifies the column number (starts at 0).

B<'label'> : Specifies column title.

B<'bindings'> : Specifies the callbacks to bind. It should be always in
pairs 'event1 callback1 event2 callback2'. Do not put any & before
call back name, just plain callback name. For each cell in the column
the event bindings are set. The callback will be passed the rowid. At
present, no other parameter can be passed.

Specifying widget specific attributes:

All options with '-' will be treated as option to the underlying
widget type. Thus '-width' will be sent to 'entry' using
$widget->configure() method.


=head1 Specifying Data

=over 4

The data associated with GridEntry should be an hash-of-array.
Like

$datahash={
               'col1'=>['1','2','3'],
               'col2'=>['abc','def','ijk']
               }

The keys in this hash should be same as columns specified in the
structure. The value of this key is an array which contains column
data.


=head1 KEY BINDINGS

=over 4

=item Arrow keys-up and down, Page Up, Page down keys are bound.

They can be used to navigate. If browsecmd is defined, it will be
called whenever page up/down key is used.


=head1 EXAMPLE

See programmes that came along with the tar ball.

=head1 BUGS

 - May be plenty,please report.

=head1 TODO

 - Copy/Paste between rows/columns
 - Formula/computation. e.g col1xcol2=col3 to be done 
automatically.
 - Parameter passing with 'bindings' option.

=head1 AUTHOR

Raman.P  <raamanp@yahoo.co.in>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Raman.P . All rights reserved.
This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
